There are so many technical as well as managerial possibilities to control and solve this problem. As per WHO Digital technology can help in solving this challenge . The pandemic has triggered an unprecedented demand for digital health technology solution and has revealed successful solution such as for population screening, tracking the infection, prioritizing the use and allocation of resources, and designing targeted responses. Such technology are Machine Learning as a tool against COVID 19 viral pandemics are a serious threat COVID 19 is not the first, and it won't be the last. But , like never before, we are collection and sharing what we learn about the virus. Hundreds of research teams around the world are combining their efforts to collect data and develop solution.
How machine learning is helping us to:
1.Identifying who is most at risk form COVID 19
                A. Infection risk
                B. Severity risk
                C. Outcome risk
                D. Predicting the risk of infection
                       (Age, Pre-existing conditions, General hygiene habits, Social habits, etc.)
2.Screening patients and diagnosing COVID 19
          When it come to using machine learning to help diagnose COVID 19, promising 
           research areas include:
                 1.Using face scans to identify symptoms, such as whether or not the patient has a 
                    fever,
                 2. Using wearable technology such as smart watches to look for tell table pattern 
                     in patient's resting heart rate,
                 3. Using machine learning-powered chatbots to screen patients based on self- 
                      reported symptoms  
Understanding how a virus interacts with our bodies is extremely important in the development of new treatments and the discovery of new drugs.


















If this problem is solved that will be biggest service to the mankind in current scenario. As most of the countries have implemented strict measures and lock down, the global economy is badly affected and GDP of the major countries is falling down. More than that it will save the lives of millions. The solution of this problem can only bring back the life on track and the businesses can recover their losses in future.







COVID-19 has now been  declared a pandemic. To  date, COVID-19 has affected over 5 million people world-wide, resulting in over 170,000 reported deaths. Numerous preventative strategies and non-pharmaceutical interventions have been employed to mitigate the spread of disease including careful infection control, the isolation of patients, and social distancing. Management is predominantly focused on the provision of supportive care, with oxygen therapy representing the major treatment intervention. Medical therapy involving corticosteroids and antivirals have also been encouraged as part of critical management schemes. However, there is at present no specific antiviral recommended for the treatment of COVID-19 and no vaccine is  currently available. Despite the strategic implementation of these measures, the number of new reported cases  continues to rise at a profoundly alarming rate.If this problem is not solved at this stage, It can affect more people and that will be dangerous to the humanity







The current existing solutions to this problem contains all the preventive measures which have been recommended by WHO. It also includes the products used for the treatment such as the antiviral and malaria drug, Ventilators for critical pateints and digital technology based softwares like AROGYA Setu app which have been installed by around 113 million people of India.
My solution is to go beyond this and implement machine learning with AI technology which will help to generate more accurate data and can be used for better prevention and treatment options.









The commercial advantage to this proposed solution can take our economy out of this major crisis. The machine learning with AI will lead to produce more products which help all the related companies. There can be many startups which can be funded by Govt or private enterprises leading the economy to revive back to its full swing.